Good afternoon everyone, my name is Amrita Saigal and this is Katie Smyth.
We are from MIT and we have developed a manufacturing process
to make sanitary pads out of banana tree fiber.
Katie: We were approached about a year ago now with a significant problem in Rwanda.
36 percent of young girls in Rwanda miss up to 50 days of school
or work a year due to lack of access to affordable sanitary protection.
In the future we'll be able to produce cheap affordable sanitary protection
because we use locally available material
this banana fiber which is stripped from the trunk of banana trees
and we're able to process this into a fluffy pulp material
that can be used as the filling material for pads
and this actually has similar absorbency properties to what is
currently being used in sanitary protection.
Amrita: We aim to provide low cost sanitary protection to girls and women in Rwanda.
We plan to use a social enterprise model in which women can own and operate a machine
and be able to sell pads in their local communities.
We predict that they'll be able to sell these pads for a price of 75 cents for a pack of 10
for significantly less than what is currently available
which sells for $2.20 for a pack of 10 in Rwanda.
Katie: So there is still work that needs to be done right now we're still in the design phase.
We're looking to improve the quality and look of our pads.
Amrita: We would love to hear anyone's suggestions and advice
on how to scale up our manufacturing process and actually help us
and give us suggestions on the implementation of our project.
Katie: Its been a great opportunity presenting here, and that's our project.
Amrita: Thank you.
(applause)